A few years ago, I broke into my own house.
I had just driven home,
it was around midnight in the dead of Montreal winter,
I had been visiting my friend, Jeff, across town,
and the thermometer on the front porch read minus 40 degrees —
and don't bother asking if that's Celsius or Fahrenheit,
minus 40 is where the two scales meet —
it was very cold.
And as I stood on the front porch fumbling in my pockets,
I found I didn't have my keys.
In fact, I could see them through the window,
lying on the dining room table where I had left them.
So I quickly ran around and tried all the other doors and windows,
and they were locked tight.
I thought about calling a locksmith — at least I had my cellphone,
but at midnight, it could take a while for a locksmith to show up,
and it was cold.
I couldn't go back to my friend Jeff's house for the night
because I had an early flight to Europe the next morning,
and I needed to get my passport and my suitcase.
So you go to the doctor and get some tests.
The doctor determines that you have high cholesterol
and you would benefit from medication to treat it.
So you get a pillbox.
You have some confidence,
your physician has some confidence that this is going to work.
The company that invented it did a lot of studies, submitted it to the FDA.
They studied it very carefully, sceptically, they approved it.
They have a rough idea of how it works,
they have a rough idea of what the side effects are.
It should be OK.
You have a little more of a conversation with your physician
and the physician is a little worried because you've been blue,
haven't felt like yourself,
you haven't been able to enjoy things in life quite as much as you usually do.
Your physician says, "You know, I think you have some depression.
I'm going to have to give you another pill."
So now we're talking about two medications.
This pill also — millions of people have taken it,
the company did studies, the FDA looked at it — all good.
Some years ago,
I stumbled across a simple design exercise
that helps people understand and solve complex problems,
and like many of these design exercises, it kind of seems trivial at first,
but under deep inspection,
it turns out that it reveals unexpected truths
about the way that we collaborate and make sense of things.
The exercise has three parts
and begins with something that we all know how to do,
which is how to make toast.
It begins with a clean sheet of paper, a felt marker,
and without using any words, you begin to draw how to make toast.
And most people draw something like this.
They draw a loaf of bread,  which is sliced, then put into a toaster.
The toast is then deposited for some time.
It pops up, and then voila! After two minutes, toast and happiness.
Now, over the years, I've collected many hundreds of drawings of these toasts,
and some of them are very good,
because they really illustrate the toast-making process quite clearly.
And then there are some that are, well, not so good.
When I was young, I prided myself as a nonconformist
in the conservative U.S. state I live in, Kansas.
I didn't follow along with the crowd.
I wasn't afraid to try weird clothing trends or hairstyles.
I was outspoken and extremely social.
Even these pictures and postcards  of my London semester abroad 16 years ago
show that I obviously didn't care if I was perceived as weird or different.
But that same year  I was in London, 16 years ago,
I realized something about myself that actually was somewhat unique,
and that changed everything.
I became the opposite of who I thought I once was.
I stayed in my room instead of socializing.
I stopped engaging in clubs and leadership activities.
I didn't want to stand out in the crowd any more.
I told myself it was because I was growing up and maturing,
not that I was suddenly looking for acceptance.
I had always assumed I was immune to needing acceptance.
After all, I was a bit unconventional.
But I realize now
that the moment I realized something was different about me
We're at a tipping point in human history,
a species poised between gaining the stars and losing the planet we call home.
Even in just the past few years, we've greatly expanded
our knowledge of how Earth fits within the context of our universe.
NASA's Kepler mission has discovered
thousands of potential planets around other stars,
indicating that Earth is but one of billions of planets in our galaxy.
Kepler is a space telescope
that measures the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass in front of them,
blocking just a little bit of that light from reaching us.
Kepler's data reveals planets' sizes
as well as their distance from their parent star.
Together, this helps us understand whether these planets are small and rocky,
like the terrestrial planets in our own Solar System,
and also how much light they receive from their parent sun.
In turn, this provides clues as to whether these planets that we discover
might be habitable or not.
Unfortunately, at the same time as we're discovering this treasure trove
of potentially habitable worlds,
our own planet is sagging under the weight of humanity.
