Preparation of the G20 Summit on 2 April - with the participation of Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Member of the European Council (debate)
Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure to welcome here this afternoon the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown.
Welcome, Prime Minister, to the European Parliament.
The Prime Minister will make a statement to the European Parliament on the preparations for next week's G20 Summit.
This summit meeting, which will take place in London on Thursday 2 April 2009, comes at a critical movement in the handling of the current international economic and financial crisis.
It offers a vital opportunity for the leaders of both the industrialised world and the emerging economies to work together on a common agenda for immediate economic stability and longer-term recovery.
The London Summit needs to agree on the macroeconomic policies and regulatory structures that can get us through the current crisis and put in place a better, more sustainable framework for the future.
As Chairman of the G20, Gordon Brown has been offering active international leadership at what is proving to be one of the most difficult times in recent history.
The speed with which he has helped develop the G20 as a new tool of international economic governance is both encouraging and impressive.
The Prime Minister has also made a strong and positive impact in showing how the United Kingdom can work effectively with its partners in the European Union, as together we find innovative solutions to the many challenges we face in common.
I have always believed that it is vital that Britain plays a committed role as a central player in the European Union.
Prime Minister, we strongly welcome your determination to play such a role.
I have great pleasure in giving the floor to the British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown.
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. - Mr President, for this special honour of an invitation to speak to you, and for your successful Presidency of the Parliament, let me thank you.
Let me thank you, European parliamentarians and members of the European Commission, led by President Barroso: it is thanks to the work of all of you, and the generations whose work we build on, that today we enjoy a Europe of peace and unity, which will truly rank among the finest achievements of human history and which is today a beacon of hope for the whole world.
And if anyone, in any country or continent, is in any doubt about how the human will and the courage of representatives with a mission can build a new future out of past decades of despair, let them simply reflect upon how, 60 years ago, Europeans talked of enmities that were forever entrenched and relationships that could never be repaired.
They talked of a hard, long and bitter Cold War.
They did not believe it possible that our Europe could ever be fully at peace, far less that it could unite and cooperate.
Then let them think of how today, after years of cooperation and unity, none but those on the political extremes would question that we are stronger together and safer together than ever we were apart.
On 9 November this year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of something that surely for each of us in this Chamber must count as one of the most defining events of our lives - the fall of the Berlin Wall.
Inaugural address by the President of the European Parliament
Presidents of the European Parliament, Ministers, Presidents and representatives of the European institutions, ladies and gentlemen, and above all, dear friends.
I stand before you today as the thirteenth President of the directly-elected European Parliament.
I am pleased to see a number of former Presidents here among us today: Mr Emilio Colombo, Mr Enrique Barón Crespo, Mr Egon Klepsch, Mr Klaus Hänsch, Mr José María Gil-Robles, Mrs Nicole Fontaine, Mr Pat Cox and Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering.
Your presence is a great privilege for us all.
As many of you have said, my election is also symbolic - symbolic of the dream of a united continent held by the citizens in our part of Europe, a dream that has now been fulfilled.
My dear colleagues from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus and Malta, I know and understand the concerns, needs and expectations of those who recently joined the Union.
I know, because in my country they are the same.
However, now we bear a shared responsibility for the future of our continent.
The old and new Europe are no more.
This is our Europe!
We want it to be modern and strong.
And we want our citizens to see it as such.
This calls for energy and hard work.
It is a goal that generations of Europeans have dreamed of and one worthy of the great effort needed to achieve it.
I am ready to do that work and make that effort, because those dreams were also my dreams.
Ladies and gentlemen, as we begin this new parliamentary term, Europe and we ourselves - its representatives - face many challenges.
We must meet those challenges.
We must remember that, in striving for a better Europe, the European Parliament plays a special role, a role that is not only institutional, but also social, a deeply symbolic role.
The European Parliament is the essence of the European democratic system.
The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Guinea.
Mr President, I believe that the level of interest in this matter far outweighs the crowd of people that have hurried into this Chamber this afternoon, which I regret once again for my group and for the others.
Mr President, Guinea-Conakry needs the support of the international community.
Following the death of President Conté, a military junta seized power.
Criticised by the international community, it did, however, receive domestic support because it promised a rapid transition to a civil regime with free elections.
Captain Dadis Camara, who led the junta, made a firm commitment not to stand in the presidential elections, but after a disastrous management of the country - no budget, no public tender bids, no basic services for the population - he acquired a taste for power and clung to it so tightly that he is now standing in the elections.
His electoral campaign relies on all of the country's organisational, media and economic resources.
In the face of this violation of the commitments formerly made by the junta, the opposition organised a demonstration, which was brutally repressed by the presidential guard.
It left 150 dead and more than 1 000 injured, and many women were raped and disembowelled.
The reaction of the European Parliament and, I hope, of the European Union, will be clear.
We call for the suspension of the European Union fisheries agreement.
We call on the African Union to impose sanctions on the military junta and to organise a dialogue within a reconciliation committee.
We call for the installation of a transitional government to prepare for the presidential and legislative elections, the junta being definitively outlawed by the international community.
I hope that these reactions, which are appropriate for the tragedy that has taken place, will set a precedent, and that in other cases of flagrant breaches of human rights, the European Union will have the courage to act just as promptly.
author. - Mr President, when you look into the situation of Guinea and learn about the atrocities that have taken place there in recent months, the first legitimate question to ask is why it has had so little media coverage.
There have been only a few lines here and there, as though there had not been hundreds of people killed, terrible acts of torture and horrifying acts of rape aimed at annihilating human dignity.
It is true that various international institutions have condemned the military junta that came to power after a coup d’etat, but I believe that much more should have been done to raise awareness among ordinary citizens, including European citizens.
This is why I am pleased that at least the European Parliament, speaking on behalf of the citizens who sent us here, has an appropriate reaction and the resolution we will vote on today appropriately addresses it.
However, I consider that what is of the utmost importance is not only to criticise and condemn the current regime but also to eliminate any possibility of European funds intended to help the people of Guinea being misappropriated.
28 September is an important date for the people of Guinea because it is the day when the referendum on independence took place.
Annual Report (2007) on the main aspects and basic choices of the CFSP - European Security Strategy and ESDP - The role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU (debate)
The next item is the joint debate on:
the report by Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the annual report on the main aspects and basic choices of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in 2007, presented to the European Parliament in application of point G, paragraph 43 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006,
the report by Karl von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the European Security Strategy and the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP), and
the report by Ari Vatanen, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not interested in following our debates, our rapporteur asks, rightly so, and for the dignity of our work, if you could please leave the Chamber in silence.
Thank you, Mr President.
Indeed, I believe that the Union's foreign policy is worthy of attention.
Mr President, we have a special debate today on three major reports on foreign policy, on security and defence, and on EU-NATO relations.
Our annual report on the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) has become an important vehicle through which Parliament expresses its strategic view on EU foreign policy.
In this year's report, we have decided to focus on policy making and policy shaping.
We have focused on the need to establish a true dialogue with the Council on the main objectives of the EU's common foreign and security policy.
We have recognised that it is in progress, namely that for the first time, the Council's report systematically refers to the resolutions adopted by the European Parliament.
We are grateful: this is a real achievement.
However, we have expressed also our regret that the Council does not engage in a full dialogue with the views advanced by Parliament, nor does it refer to those resolutions in operational documents as joint actions or common positions.
We expect that the Council's annual report will provide opportunities to establish a dialogue with Parliament aimed at developing a more strategic approach to the common foreign and security policy.
We have reiterated the most important principles in our report which should underscore our foreign policy.
In our view, the CFSP must be underpinned and guided by the values which the European Union and its Member States cherish, notably democracy, the rule of law, respect for the dignity of the human person, for human rights and for fundamental freedoms, and the promotion of peace and effective multilateralism.
We believe that the European Union can make an impact, but only if it speaks with one voice and if it is equipped with appropriate instruments like those stemming from the Lisbon Treaty and a more generous budget.
We can undertake effective action only when it is legitimised by both the European and national parliaments acting at their respective levels and in accordance with their own mandates.
Situation in Japan, including the nuclear power plant alerts (debate)
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Japan, including the nuclear power plant alerts.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, on behalf of the Council I want to begin by conveying our condolences to the people of Japan, those who have lost loved ones and the many others who have been touched in one way or another by the tragic events over 10 days ago.
I also pay tribute to the courage and fortitude of those who are now struggling to tackle the consequences of the terrible earthquake and tsunami, as well as those endeavouring to deal with the consequences of the nuclear incident.
The European Union stands alongside the Japanese people at this extraordinarily difficult and challenging time.
We have already provided Japan with assistance in a very concrete way.
On the very day that the earthquake struck, the European Council asked the High Representative and the Commission to mobilise all appropriate assistance.
The European Civil Protection Mechanism was activated in order to help coordinate assistance offered by the Member States.
Within a very short time the European Union was responding to requests for assistance from the Japanese Government.
The European Union stands ready to continue to answer calls for humanitarian assistance, technical support of any kind or more specialised assistance that the Japanese authorities may consider appropriate.
On behalf of the Council, I would like in particular to thank Commissioner Georgieva and the High Representative for a swift, comprehensive and very coordinated response to the disaster.
The EU civil protection team deployed in Japan has our full support.
Individual Member States have also been prepared to make very generous offers of assistance.
It is also important to mention that the Council will need to follow up on the macroeconomic impact of the Japanese crisis.
Ministers already had a preliminary debate on the matter at the Ecofin breakfast on 15 March.
Obviously one of the main concerns for us all is the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
I would like to stress the fact that the Hungarian Presidency acted without delay, taking into account the gravity of the events and the possible effects in Europe, especially regarding the nuclear risk.
We promptly convened the Working Party on Atomic Questions and an Extraordinary Energy Council in order to assess the situation in Japan, as well as its possible repercussions on the EU, and reflect on the EU response.
I would like to underline that the first message to come from the Council was one of solidarity, compassion and readiness to provide humanitarian as well as technical assistance.
This message is also one of respect for the tenacity and the resilience of the Japanese people, especially those who are still struggling to cope with the situation in Fukushima.
