The ELOs, together with the Europol officers, analysts and other experts, provide an effective, fast and multilingual service 24 hours a day.
The Europol staff will continue to increase up to 485 by the end of 2004, including the ELOs and security personnel.
Management and control stop at national borders and has been active in establishing cooperative networks with accession States.
In addition, Europol has improved its international law-enforcement cooperation by negotiating bilateral operational or strategic agreements with other States and international organisations as follows — in alphabetical order: Colombia, Eurojust, European Central Bank, European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction, Iceland, Interpol, Norway, Romania, Russia, United States of America and World Customs Organisation.
Factsheet on Europol
January 2004 — EN
Europol is accountable to the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs.
The Council is responsible for the guidance and control of Europol.
It appoints the Director and the Deputy Directors and approves the budget.
The Council of Ministers contains representatives from all Member States, and the requirement for unanimous decisions helps ensure a democratic control of Europol.
The Europol Management Board comprises one representative from each Member State, and has the overall task of supervising the activities of the organisation.
Europol is the European Union law-enforcement organisation that handles criminal intelligence.
Its aim is to improve the effectiveness and cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States in preventing and combating serious international organised crime.
The mission of Europol is to make a significant contribution to the European Union's law-enforcement action against organised crime, with an emphasis on targeting criminal organisations.
The Joint Supervisory Body, comprising two dataprotection experts from each Member State, monitors the content and use of all personal data held by Europol.
Raamweg, 47 The Hague The Netherlands
Postal address: PO Box 90850 2509 LW The Hague The Netherlands
European Union enlargement and international cooperation
Publications Office
The establishment of Europol was agreed in the Maastricht Treaty on European Union of 7 February 1992.
EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION MISSION, FACTS AND FIGURES
Our mission
Our services
Our approach
Our main asset is our expertise in:
We assist partner countries in developing quality education and training systems and in putting them into practice.
vocational education and training systems and policies in the EU, its Member States and transition countries
We work on behalf of the European Union institutions, particularly the European Commission.
We currently operate in the candidate countries, South Eastern Europe, Eastern Europe and Central Asia, and the Mediterranean region and carry out the following activities:
Our role:
the specic conditions, needs and expectations of key players in the partner countries
Assess progress and future priorities for reform in partner countries in vocational education and training
EU external relations programmes, structures and approaches.
and its links to socio-economic development design, develop, monitor and assess projects at the request of the European Commission
build capacity so policy makers and practitioners in partner countries take full part in modernising their
We share expertise and we advise on policies in education and training across regions and cultures.
Working on behalf of the EU, we help our partner countries to develop people’s skills and knowledge to promote better living conditions, active citizenship and democratic societies that respect human rights and cultural diversity.
We combine this expertise to support policy learning and implementation, which fits the specic needs and priorities of each partner country.
Our experience shows that this approach ensures sustainable reform and full ownership in the partner country.
vocational education and training systems contribute actively to international debate on
The Euro in an enlarged European Union
From fragmentation to integration
A single market.
Since the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1957, a fundamental aim of the European Union hasbeen sustainable economic and social progress, so as to ensure health, wealth and apromising future for Europeans.
Closer integration in many policy areas has been vital toachieve this aim.
The single market, economic and monetary union (EMU), and enlargement toa Europe of 25 are major stepping stones in this process of integration, which has brought realsocial and economic benefits and strengthened the EU in the world.
with a single currency:
The introduction of the euro is a milestone in the development of the Union and the biggest monetary changeoverin history.
The euro is the tangible result of EMU.
It builds on the success of the single market and contributesgreatly to the economic stability needed for more growth.
It increases competition and innovation, benefitsconsumers and releases resources for other areas such as social welfare and education.
It also strengthens Europepolitically and economically.
for a closer Union:
However, EMU is not a one-off event – it is work in progress by the euro-area members, who co-operate oneconomic policy.
The new Member States also committed themselves to joining EMU and the euro in their accessiontreaties.
To do so, they need to align their economies carefully with those of existing members.
This economicalignment, known as ‘convergence’, is yet another step on the road to closer EU integration.
The bigger the EU, the greater the benefits
Through progressive enlargement the EU has gained the benefits of size.
The singlemarket is the main catalyst for realising these benefits.
The Schengen Information System (SIS II)
How to apply for access, correction or deletion?
What happens if my name is the same as an individual involved in a crime?
You have the right to ask for this in any Schengen country you wish.
Contact your national data protection authority or the competent authority which issued the alert in SIS II so that it can take measures to avoid mistaken identity between you and any other person who has been the subject of an alert.
If you do not have any preference, you could do so by contacting the authorities in the participating country which you believe may have put your personal details in SIS II.
You should also contact these authorities if you are living outside the Schengen area.
In this case, for general information you may also contact the consulate of a Schengen country in the country where you are currently living.
The home page mentioned at the end of this leaflet provides details of the national authority to contact in each Schengen country (in general, the national data protection authority or the authority responsible for data in SIS II).
Helping border guards, police and customs officers to protect external Schengen borders, prevent and detect crime and locate missing persons
You will be informed on the follow-up of your request for correction or deletion no later than three months from the date of your request.
What happens if the information in SIS II is incorrect?
Further information and contact points in the Schengen area
You have the right to bring an action before the court or the competent authority, in order to access, correct, delete or obtain information, or to claim compensation as regards an alert.
What is the Schengen Area?
Which authorities can access SIS II?
Where does the information in SIS II come from?
Border guards, customs authorities, police forces and visa authorities in the Schengen countries regularly exchange information to help fight illegal migration and crime.
SIS II is accessed by border guards, customs officers, visa authorities and judicial and law-enforcement authorities.
These authorities may only access the SIS II data that they need for the specific performance of their tasks.
A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society
Presentation by the President
For the first time in its history, the European Economic and Social Committee is to adopt a comprehensive, detailed and timely document on the ongoing political debate and the urgent and concrete problems facing Europe - A programme for Europe: proposals of civil society.
This programme enables the Committee to take a position on two major issues: the need for economic and social recovery on the one hand, and the European elections on the other.
Through this programme, the Committee calls on the European institutions, the Member States, the political and social powers, and hence, on citizens of the European Union, to ensure that the European elections are about European issues and not only about matters of national interest.
This is especially important at this time, when all European countries are engaged in the debate on economic and financial recovery.
This debate requires European responses and common decisions.
Through A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society, the Committee presents the institutions with a set of measures and actions which Europe must undertake in order to support progress-oriented and sustainable economic and social recovery.
The Committee has set itself the goal of supporting the consolidation of European integration, our democracies as well as our responses to public needs.
These needs include an understanding of the very meaning of the European project: a meaning that goes beyond the confines of the market and the institutions and encourages the qualitative development of our society.
Mario Sepi, President of the EESCBrussels, 24 March 2009
A Programme for Europe: proposals of civil society has three fundamental objectives: a prospective objective, a political objective and an institutional objective.The prospective objective reveals the Committee’s soul in a global framework that reflects the consistency of its work.
This programme permits the Committee’s members, who represent civil society organisations in the European Union, to set out their views on the choices that Europe must make for a sustainable future in a world in crisis.The Committee’s political objective is to present what might be termed a civil society manifesto to the other institutions, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council in particular, in order to support their actions with a view to achieving Europe’s shared goals.
Finally, the institutional objective is to place the ideas of the European Economic and Social Committee at the heart of the debate on the challenges facing Europe in the coming years by proposing concrete measures to the institutions.
These three objectives are interlinked by an important central idea that constitutes the Committee’s very essence: the development of an inclusive and mutually supportive European model, which must lead to stronger coordination between economic and political rules based on cooperation and integration strategies.
The crisis, which originated in the financial system and has spread to the international economic system, has presented our societies with new questions and, at the same time, aggravated existing challenges, namely those relating to
poverty; social balances, the vitality and innovation of our businesses, natural resources, energy sources, and migration.In this context of unprecedented change, civil society and citizens expect concrete answers from the European institutions, which are responsible for developing decisive policies for Europe’s future.
The EU aims to be a global pioneer in its defence of a long-term development model.
The European Economic and Social Committee calls on the institutions to provide strong responses that will enable Europe to play this role to the full.
As we approach the renewal of the European institutions responsible for taking the necessary actions, it is important for civil society, which is made up of the driving forces that are in direct contact with our societies’social and economic realities, to be heard.
