The Ozone Mafia.
Now that the Kyoto Protocol has been ratified with even Russia belatedly signing on , a threat is emerging against an earlier landmark in international environmental protection the Vienna Convention the Montreal Protocol for defending the stratospheric ozone layer.
The threat comes from an unlikely source organized crime.
The reason is simple.
To protect the stratospheric ozone layer international agreements have been reached to ban the use and trade of the ozone-destroying chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons CFC s.
In to replace these chemicals with others that are more benign the equipment in which they are used like freezers coolers units for foam plastic production must be substituted for new ones.
it's much cheaper although forbidden , to use the old equipment refill them with CFC's when needed than to buy new machines use the more environmentally benign more costly alternatives.
As with any ban a market was thus created with it a business opportunity for well organized and environmentally reckless criminals.
Organized crime is constantly on the lookout for such opportunities it continues to find them.
it is no surprise that CFC or freon smuggling has developed without much attention risks jeopardizing the Vienna Convention the Montreal Protocol.
These agreements are hailed as great successes annual reports summarizing official statistics are published showing that the use of CFC continues to decrease.
The content of chlorine ( from decay of CFC's in the stratosphere has levelled off two years ago the ozone hole over the Antarctic was the smallest in decades broken up into two.
However new reports show a thinning of the ozone layer over the Arctic last year Antarctic ozone hole was as large and deep as ever.
There is no way of telling whether these represent mere fluctuations in a slow recovery process a break in the positive trend.
the volume of illicit CFC trading so large that it is now a factor of real importance.
As with illicit drugs it is difficult to estimate the extent of smuggling operations.
A number of extensive catches have been made by national customs agencies the largest in Japan in recent years.
In most cases the forbidden CFC's have been labelled as permitted HFC's hydrogenfluorocarbons labels like spray paint and lubricants also have been used.
Ships airplanes have been used for transport in this black-market trade.
The shipments caught by customs authorities mostly originate from free industrial zones also called export-processing zones in China Vietnam Thailand Egypt.
Wall-to-Wall Wal-Mart.
you want to know which video clip will soon be scaring the daylights out of policy-makers throughout the world.
In a scenario that looks uncannily like the spread of a global pandemic the economist Thomas Holmes has prepared a dynamic map simulation showing the spread of Wal-Mart stores throughout the United States.
Starting at the epicentre in Bentonville Arkansas where Sam Walton opened his first store in 1962 , giant boxy Wal-Mart stores have now multiplied to the point where the average American lives less than seven kilometres from an outlet.
Interestingly the video shows how the stores spread out like petals of a flower ever thickening expanding.
Rather than jumping out to the coasts 80 % of all Americans live within 80 kilometres of the Pacific or Atlantic oceans Wal-Marts have spread organically through an ever-expanding supply chain.
Even though each new store takes away business from Wal-Mart stores established nearby ever-improving supply efficiencies help maintain the chain overall growth.
Love them hate them what is undeniable is Wal-Mart is the quintessential example of the costs and benefits of modern globalization.
Consumers pay significantly less than at traditional outlets.
For example economists estimate that the food section of Wal-Mart charges 25 % less than a typical large supermarket chain.
The differences in price for many other consumer goods is even larger.
Consider the following stunning fact together with a few sister big box stores Target Best Buy Home Depot Wal-Mart accounts for roughly 50 % of America's much vaunted productivity growth edge over Europe during the last decade.
Fifty percent.
Similar advances in wholesaling supply chains account for another 25 %.
The notion that Americans have gotten better at everything while other rich countries have stood still is thus wildly misleading.
The US productivity miracle the emergence of Wal-Mart-style retailing are virtually synonymous.
I have nothing against big box stores.
They are an enormous boon to low-income consumers partly compensating for the tepid wage growth that many of them have suffered during the past two decades.
I don't agree with friends of mine who turn their noses down at Wal-Mart stores claim never to have visited one.
As a consumer I think big-box stores are great.
The Great Man Syndrome.
In our globalized age , vast impersonal forces are supposed to determine events.
Globalized markets unfettered trade militant Islam China's awakening these are the things historians strategists usually portray as the key forces shaping our destiny.
most people don't see things this way.
Instead most people still instinctively look at great men as the agents of history the men women who seem to forge events through their political vision personal charisma the force of their moral claims.
By sheer force of conviction personality such figures many of us believe can carry the day bringing a glimmer of hope to an otherwise detached and impersonal universe.
This yearning for providential men or women in our global age results from at least three factors.
The first concerns the complexity and vulnerability of our world.
The second , paradoxically reflects our growing cynicism towards politics politicians.
the third is the result of our media culture obsessed as it is with putting a face to events.
Confronted with the problem of bringing about positive changes in a domestic or international environment that seems to defy the power of normal leaders one looks for new Alexanders to untie the Gordian knot and transcend complexity by sheer force of will dynamism.
For example structural reforms in Europe are thought impossible to enact unless imposed by some reincarnation of Margaret Thatcher.
In the Middle East everyone waits for a new Anwar Sadat to arise among the Arabs.
Disillusion with politics politicians also is a key element of our yearning for providential leaders.
In France for example the overly flattering commemoration of President François Mitterrand's death ten years ago primarily reflects widespread disillusion with his successor Jacques Chirac.
Indirect criticism of the present is usually a key element in idealized views of the past.
The less we expect from a normal politician the more we look for a hero.
With the world becoming a global stage the media's role in fuelling the appetite for providential leaders is essential.
The public demands quick answers to complex problems that unsolved risk endangering the planet.
They need figures with whom they can identify immediately recognize , and , above all , trust.
Why Pain Hurt
Pain is a familiar experience for everyone its nature remains a troubling enigma for sufferers and scientists alike
Why different patients who undergo the same surgical procedure experience markedly different post-operative pain
How it that people with little or no medical explanation for a persistent pain become partially totally disabled by it even with extensive and resourceful treatment
Many doctors would like to think of pain as a simple sensation that usefully calls disease or injury to our attention
pain resists explanation as a simple sensation just as music resists explanation as simple tones
A contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness an ability to annihilate complex thoughts other feelings an ability to destroy language a strong resistance to objectification
She reminds physicians that , for the person suffering intense pain what dominates awareness above all else is a powerful negative emotion
Most of the time pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in various ways generate signals that travel to the spinal cord and from there to the brain
For many years scientists thought that these signals travelled along a few well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain called the thalamus
From there scientists believed the signals went on to the part of the brain 's cortex that managed body awareness somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experience
Unfortunately the neural roadmap for sensory messages of tissue injury explains only a part of how we experience pain
It cannot explain why pain involves emotion and cognition
Psychologists are quick to point out that whenever humans experience strong emotions cognitions--thoughts , memories expectations beliefs interpretation of the situation--help form the experience
In other words pain may begin with a neural message of tissue injury or disease it is the end product of complex events within the brain
The conscious experience of pain involves emotion and cognition as well as sensation
We always experience pain as a distressing thing happening in some part of the body in some particular circumstance usually it has a particular meaning
New evidence points to more complex mechanisms for pain that involve higher levels of the brain
Injury messages it seems , travel to many brain structures not just to sensation-generating areas
Some injury messages directly excite brain structures that produce emotion these in turn stimulate areas of the brain that create the meaning of the immediate situation
Water for All
This month water once again takes center stage at the Fourth World Water Forum in Mexico City
It is an opportune moment while much of the world s attention has been fixed on issues of energy supply and security hundreds of millions of people in the developing world continue to see the supply and security of fresh water as equally if more important
Surveys undertaken by the World Bank in developing countries show that when poor people are asked to name the three most important concerns they face good health is always mentioned
a key determinant of whether they will have good health or not is access to clean water
More than a billion people around the world today do not
As a result they are increasingly vulnerable to poor health
The World Bank estimates that by 2035 as many as three billion people almost all of them in developing countries could live under conditions of severe water stress especially if they happen to live in Africa the Middle East South Asia
This will cause obvious hardship it will also hold back the economic growth needed for millions of people to escape poverty
In Latin America about 15 % of the population roughly 76 million people do not have access to safe water 116 million people do not have access to sanitation services
The figures are worse in Africa and parts of Asia
This is a situation that few people in rich countries face
Generally these countries citizens enjoy services that provide for all water needs from drinking to irrigation to sanitation
In addition other water-related issues such as the risks posed by flooding have been reduced to manageable levels
Rich industrial countries have invested early and heavily in water infrastructure institutions management capacities
The result beyond the health benefits for all has been a proven record of economic growth one only has to look at investment in hydro-power. to see the positive impact of water management projects on many economies
Granted rich countries have a certain advantage they benefit from generally moderate climates with regular rainfall and relatively low risks of drought and flooding
Even so they are immune to water-related disasters as Hurricane Katrina s destruction of New Orleans taught us
the impact of such events on poor countries is much greater
Extreme rainfall variations floods droughts can have huge social and economic effects and result in the large-scale loss of life
